#!/usr/bin/perl -w

=head1 NAME

bagop - mark files and directories for backup and back them up


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bagop> [--dest I<[[user@]host:][dir]> ] [--dryrun|-d] [--quiet|-q] (add I<paths>|del I<paths>|move I<src> I<dst>|commit|stat) 


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bagop> is a tool for flagging specific files and directories that should be
backed up.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 9

=item B<--dest> I<[[user@]host:][dir]> 

Destination folder. B<--dest> determines where the backup will be saved. I<dir>
is the directory where the backup should be saved (defaults to . if a remote
host is given). I<host> is the name of the remote host on which the backup is
(default: no remote host). I<user> is the username on the remote host (default:
your username).

The syntax is the same as for B<rsync>.

The default is ~/backup/bagop.


=item B<-d>

=item B<--dryrun>

Dry run. Do not do the actual backup but show what would be done.


=item B<-q>

=item B<--quiet>

Quiet. Do not output progress information and warnings. Only report errors.


=item B<add> I<paths>

Add to the backup. Mark I<paths> for backing up from now on. Adding a
directory will add all files and furture files under that directory.


=item B<del> I<paths>

=item B<delete>

Delete from the backup. Mark I<paths> for not being backed up any
more (and NOT impelemented: delete it from the backup).

=item B<move> I<src> I<dst>

The command is equivalent to the `mv` Unix command and indeed files and
directories can be renamed or moved physically on the file system while keeping
track of them in the database. If multiple I<src> paths are given, then the
I<dst> path must be a directory.

=item B<commit>

Do the actual backup. This will copy the files and directories to the backup.


=item B<stat> I<path>

=item B<status>

Show status. Show the status of the files and directories.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE: Simple use

Mark a file foo.gz for backup:

B<bagop> add foo.gz

Mark multiple files for backup:

B<bagop> add *.gz

Mark a directory results/ for backup:

B<bagop> add results/

Copy the marked files and directories to the backup dir

B<bagop> commit

Rename a file already added to the backup

B<bagop> move foo bar

Move files and directories already added to the backup to new_dir/

B<bagop> move foo bar dir/ new_dir/

Show the backup status:

B<bagop> stat

Show the backup status for all files:

B<bagop> stat /

=head1 EXAMPLE: backup to a specified destination

The default backup destination is '~/backup/bagop'. To use an alternative destination do:

B<bagop> --dest ~/my_backup add *.gz

And commit the backup to that specific destination:

B<bagop> --dest ~/my_backup commit

=head1 EXAMPLE: backup to multiple destinations

First add files for the first destination and then the second:

B<bagop> --dest ~/my_backup1 add *.gz
B<bagop> --dest ~/my_backup2 add *.gz

And then commit both:

B<bagop> --dest ~/my_backup commit
B<bagop> --dest ~/my_backup commit

=head1 EXAMPLE: backup to a specified host

Specify the alternatie host and the optional directory at the host when adding files:

B<bagop> --dest maasha@host1:my_backup add *.gz

And then commit the backup for that host and directory:

B<bagop> --dest maasha@host1:my_backup commit

=head1 EXAMPLE: backup to multiple hosts

Don't put all eggs in one basket. First add files for the first host and then the second:

B<bagop> --dest maasha@host1: add *.gz
B<bagop> --dest maasha@host2: add *.gz

And then commit both:

B<bagop> --dest maasha@host1: commit
B<bagop> --dest maasha@host1: commit

=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Martin Asser Hansen, http://www.maasha.dk

Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Ole Tange, http://ole.tange.dk

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2007,2008,2009,2010,2011,2012,2013 Free Software Foundation,
Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
at your option any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head2 Documentation license I

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this documentation
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the file fdl.txt.

=head2 Documentation license II

You are free:

=over 9

=item B<to Share>

to copy, distribute and transmit the work

=item B<to Remix>

to adapt the work

=back

Under the following conditions:

=over 9

=item B<Attribution>

You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or
licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse you or
your use of the work).

=item B<Share Alike>

If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute
the resulting work only under the same, similar or a compatible
license.

=back

With the understanding that:

=over 9

=item B<Waiver>

Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get permission from
the copyright holder.

=item B<Public Domain>

Where the work or any of its elements is in the public domain under
applicable law, that status is in no way affected by the license.

=item B<Other Rights>

In no way are any of the following rights affected by the license:

=over 2

=item *

Your fair dealing or fair use rights, or other applicable
copyright exceptions and limitations;

=item *

The author's moral rights;

=item *

Rights other persons may have either in the work itself or in
how the work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights.

=back

=back

=over 9

=item B<Notice>

For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the
license terms of this work.

=back

A copy of the full license is included in the file as cc-by-sa.txt.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<ssh>(1), B<rsync>(1)

=cut
